Monday (Wednesday) Plan:
Wednesday: set up a work space for a new data representation, e.g. a bunch of folders for processed image files.
Thursday: Work out and test a way to process said image files with a Difference of Gaussian filter.
Friday: Automate the conversion process and run it on all images, which were collected during the summer.
Saturday: Collect code and document it (I will push the project to github); write weekly report.

Saturday Report:
The classification of images from raw pixels presents a multitude of challenges, from translational invariance and segmentation to simple ambiguity. Several techniques that I plan to work with have been specifically created to deal with computational problems such as the first two. One approach is to do preprocessing on the images to provide the machine learning model with only the data deemed necessary for the task, such as removing details by reducing image resolution, or effectively removing everything but the edge lines of objects in images by computational methods like the difference of gaussians function. These simplifications to the data serve to shorten the amount of time it takes to learn.
During the first week of this explorational project, I worked with the data to produce a database of images preprocessed with the difference of gaussians function. Overall, the resulting images capture the edge lines of the macroinvertebrates well as judged by visual inspection, but a small sample produced unexpected blobs, suggesting they had been modified on the internet before I added them to the database. Another defect was caused by the sensitivity of the difference of gaussians function to small particles in large images, which gave a few images a 'zebra' look. Nevertheless, the overwhelming majority of images are prepared to be used for machine learning.
The script I wrote uses the free software ImageMagick to perform the difference of gaussians on one directory of images at a time. Its source code is in the 'tools/dog_images.sh' file.
